---
title: "Consequence-Based Axiom Pinpointing"
collection: talks
type: "Conference Talk"
permalink: /talks/2015-08-01-talk-2
venue: "38th edition of the German Conference on Artificial Intelligence - 2015"
date: 2015-25-09
location: "Dresden, Germany"
---

Abstract: In automated reasoning, understanding the cause of a consequence not only helps us to correctly model a system, repair any modeling error but also explains a complex decision. Such an explanation enhances the correctness and the acceptance of an intelligent system and leads to several practical applications. The examples include debugging ontologies, fault localization, requirement analysis, type-checking in Haskell, proof-based abstraction refinement, equivalence checking, are among others.

In a knowledge representation language consider OWL, a consequence is explained by pinpointing a set of relevant axioms responsible for its entailment, called a justification. Interestingly there could be several justifications for a single consequence. So, finding one or preferably all justifications is quite a challenging task and has been studied, under different names, in many research areas. In this talk, we present a non-standard reasoning problem, called axiom pinpointing, that refers to a task of computing justifications for any consequence in an ontology language. We explain the problem using a simple graph ontology example and discuss a sat-based method for computing justifications. The presented method is currently a prevalent mechanism of finding explanations by ontology development tools.

<a href='http://farif.github.io/files/talks/GE-talk-slides.pdf'>Slides</a>


